"ID"	"GROUPING"	"PMID_1"	"PMID_2"	"PMID_3"	"PMID_4"	"PMID_5"	"ABSTRACT_1"	"ABSTRACT_2"	"ABSTRACT_3"	"ABSTRACT_4"	"ABSTRACT_5"
"SCN1A"	"epilepsy"	32259093	32227486	32207228	32193085	32190912	"Voltage-gated sodium (Na V ) channels play a fundamental role in normal neurological function, especially via the initiation and propagation of action potentials. The Na V 1.1 subtype is found in inhibitory interneurons of the brain and it is essential for maintaining a balance between excitation and inhibition in neuronal networks. Heterozygous loss-of-function mutations of  SCN1A , the gene encoding Na V 1.1, underlie Dravet syndrome (DS), a severe pediatric epilepsy. We recently demonstrated that selective inhibition of Na V 1.1 inactivation prevents seizures and premature death in a mouse model of DS. Thus, selective modulators of Na V 1.1 might be useful therapeutics for treatment of DS as they target the underlying molecular deficit. Numerous scorpion-venom peptides have been shown to modulate the activity of Na V  channels, but little is known about their activity at Na V 1.1. Here we report the isolation, sequence, three-dimensional structure, recombinant production, and functional characterization of two peptidic modulators of Na V 1.1 from venom of the buthid scorpion  Hottentotta jayakari . These peptides, Hj1a and Hj2a, are potent agonists of Na V 1.1 (EC 50  of 17 and 32 nM, respectively), and they present dual α/β activity by modifying both the activation and inactivation properties of the channel. NMR studies of rHj1a indicate that it adopts a cystine-stabilized αβ fold similar to known scorpion toxins. Although Hj1a and Hj2a have only limited selectivity for Na V 1.1, their unusual dual mode of action provides an alternative approach to the development of selective Na V 1.1 modulators for the treatment of DS."	"Genetic variants in brain-expressed voltage-gated sodium channels (SCNs) have emerged as one of the most frequent causes of Mendelian forms of epilepsy and neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). This review explores the biological concepts that underlie sodium channel NDDs, explains their phenotypic heterogeneity, and appraises how this knowledge may inform clinical practice. We observe that excitatory/inhibitory neuronal expression ratios of sodium channels are important regulatory mechanisms underlying brain development, homeostasis, and neurological diseases. We hypothesize that a detailed understanding of gene expression, variant tolerance, location, and function, as well as timing of seizure onset can aid the understanding of how variants in SCN1A, SCN2A, SCN3A, and SCN8A contribute to seizure aetiology and inform treatment choice. We propose a model in which variant type, development-specific gene expression, and functions of SCNs explain the heterogeneity of sodium channel associated NDDs. Understanding of basic disease mechanisms and detailed knowledge of variant characteristics have increasing influence on clinical decision making, enabling us to stratify treatment and move closer towards precision medicine in sodium channel epilepsy and NDDs."	"We ascertained the prevalence of ictal arrhythmias to explain the high rate of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) in Dravet syndrome (DS).We selected cases with clinical DS, ≥6 years, SCN1A mutation, and ≥1 seizure/week. Home-based ECG recordings were performed for 20 days continuously. Cases were matched for age and sex to two epilepsy controls with no DS and ≥1 major motor seizure during video-EEG. We determined the prevalence of peri-ictal asystole, bradycardia, QTc changes, and effects of convulsive seizures (CS) on heart rate, heart rate variability (HRV), and PR/QRS. Generalized estimating equations were used to account for multiple seizures within subjects, seizure type, and sleep/wakefulness.We included 59 cases. Ictal recordings were obtained in 45 cases and compared to 90 controls. We analyzed 547 seizures in DS (300 CS) and 169 in controls (120 CS). No asystole occurred. Postictal bradycardia was more common in controls (n = 11, 6.5%) than cases (n = 4, 0.7%; P = 0.002). Peri-ictal QTc-lengthening (≥60ms) occurred more frequently in DS (n = 64, 12%) than controls (n = 8, 4.7%, P = 0.048); pathologically prolonged QTc was rare (once in each group). In DS, interictal HRV was lower compared to controls (RMSSD P = 0.029); peri-ictal values did not differ between the groups. Prolonged QRS/PR was rare and more common in controls (QRS: one vs. none; PR: three vs. one).We did not identify major arrhythmias in DS which can directly explain high SUDEP rates. Peri-ictal QTc-lengthening was, however, more common in DS. This may reflect unstable repolarization and an increased propensity for arrhythmias."	"SCN1A variants cause a spectrum of epilepsy syndromes from Dravet Syndrome, a severe epileptic encephalopathy of early infancy to the milder disorder of genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). These genetic epilepsies are associated with increased risk of poor outcome including complications of status epilepticus and early mortality. Individualised management of young children known to be at increased risk should be considered, such as around vaccination management.We describe two siblings with a novel pathogenic SCN1A variant, their management and clinical outcomes following routine childhood vaccinations.The index case who had a family history of epilepsy of unknown genetic aetiology, died from hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy following his 12-month vaccinations, in the context of status epilepticus and enterovirus 71 infection. The sibling of the index case with the same SCN1A variant was subsequently managed with prophylactic regular sodium valproate and additional clobazam post vaccination to reduce the risk of seizure. She has successfully completed the childhood immunisations to 18 months with no seizures and normal neurodevelopmental progress.As the aetiology of genetic epilepsies is increasingly known in early childhood, opportunities to personalise care, minimise risks and optimise outcomes are changing. Further research is needed on the risks and benefits of symptomatic and preventative management of seizures around vaccinations in young children with genetic epilepsies."	"Early onset seizures are a hallmark of Dravet syndrome. Previous studies in rodent models have shown that the epileptic phenotype is caused by loss-of-function of voltage-gated Na V  1.1 sodium channels, which are chiefly expressed in γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons. Recently, a possibly critical role has been attributed to the hippocampus in the seizure phenotype, as local hippocampal ablation of Na V  1.1 channels decreased the threshold for hyperthermia-induced seizures. However, the effect of ablation of Na V  1.1 channels restricted to cortical sites has not been tested. Here we studied local field potential (LFP) and behavior in mice following local hippocampal and cortical ablation of Scn1a, a gene encoding the α1 subunit of Na V  1.1 channels, and we compared seizure characteristics with those of heterozygous global knockout Scn1 -/+  mice. We found a high incidence of spontaneous seizures following either local hippocampal or cortical ablation, notably during a transient time window, similar to Scn1a -/+  mice. Nonconvulsive seizure activity in the injected area was common and preceded generalized seizures. Moreover, mice were susceptible to hyperthermia-induced seizures. In conclusion, local ablation of Na V  1.1 channels in the hippocampus and cortex results in focal seizure activity that can generalize. These data indicate that spontaneous epileptic activity may initiate in multiple brain regions in Dravet syndrome."
"SCN9A"	"epilepsy"	32219930	32219415	32127623	32062735	32024468	"Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSANs) are a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous neurological disorders characterized by sensory dysfunctions. Here we report 21 affected Chinese families, including nineteen with congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis (CIPA; namely HSAN IV) and two with congenital insensitivity to pain (CIP; namely HSAN IID), respectively caused by biallelic variations in NTRK1 and SCN9A, aiming to identify causative variants in these families and compare how different variants in NTRK1 affect the function of tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA).Recombinant plasmids harboring the wild-type and six mutant alleles (p.Gln216*, p.Glu584Lys, p.Leu595Arg, p.Pro684Leu, p.Val709Leu and p.Arg765Cys) of NTRK1 cDNA were constructed and transfected into HEK293 cells.The results suggested that the five missense variants only presented subtle influence on the expression level and glycosylation of TrkA but compromised the receptor phosphorylation. Our findings also suggested that a synonymous variant c.219C>T in NTRK1 may cause aberrant splicing, indicating a potential novel pathogenic mechanism of CIPA. Furthermore, we first associated gross deletion of SCN9A with CIP.This study identified multiple forms of variants responsible for CIPA/CIP in Chinese population and might provide new insights into pathogenesis of CIPA."	"Congenital insensitivity to pain (CIP) is caused by extremely rare Mendelian genetic disorders. CIP individuals demonstrate the unexpectedly severe consequences of painlessness. Although only a small number of causative conditions and genes are known, most have led to profound insights into human nociception. CIP gene discovery is catalyzing the manufacture of completely new classes of analgesics, and these are needed as alternatives to synthetic highly potent opioids.Pubmed.gov peer-reviewed journal articles and reviews.The importance of nerve growth factor-tropomyosin receptor kinase A (NGF-TRKA) signalling for nociceptor genesis and subsequent pain sensing.New analgesics can be generated from knowledge of the NGF-TRKA nociceptor pathway.Increased susceptibility to Staphylococcus aureus infection is a consequence of deficient NGF-TRKA signalling.Mutations in the voltage-gated sodium channels SCN9A and SCN11A can cause congenital painlessness, and in contradistinction, other mutations can cause episodic neuropathic pain. SCN9A/Nav1.7 is an analgesic target. SCN11A/Nav1.9 is unlikely to be an analgesic target.There are further Mendelian causes of painlessness to be discovered.Which NGF-TRKA intracellular signalling pathways operate in nociceptor development and which in post-natal pain sensing?Why have no clinically effective Nav1.7 antagonist been generated? SCN9A-CIP causes analgesia, at least in part, through endogenous opioids.Why do all CIP phenotypes involve a complete loss of all types of nociception?PRDM12 as an analgesic target.Discovery of the function and analgesic potential of new CIP genes.Can NGF-TRKA be used in the treatment of S. aureus?"	"Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II (HSANII) is a rare, recessively inherited neurological condition frequently involving insensitivity to pain. The subtype, HSAN2A, results from mutations in the gene WNK1. We identified a consanguineous Pakistani family with three affecteds showing symptoms of HSANII. We performed microarray genotyping, followed by homozygosity-by-descent (HBD) mapping, which indicated several significant HBD regions, including ~6 Mb towards the terminus of chromosome 12p, spanning WNK1. Simultaneously, we performed whole exome sequencing (WES) on one of the affected brothers, and identified a homozygous 1 bp insertion variant, Chr12:978101dupA, within exon 10. This variant, confirmed to segregate in the family, is predicted to truncate the protein (NM_213655.4:c.3464delinsAC; p.(Thr1155Asnfs*11) and lead to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay of the transcript. Previous studies of congenital pain insensitivity/HSANII in Pakistani families have identified mutations in SCN9A. Our study identified a previously unreported WNK1 mutation segregating with congenital pain insensitivity/HSANII in a Pakistani family."	"Generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) is a complex familial epilepsy syndrome. It is mainly caused by mutations in SCN1A gene, encoding type 1 voltage-gated sodium channel α-subunit (NaV1.1), and GABRA1 gene, encoding the α1 subunit of the γ-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA A ) receptor, while seldom related with SCN9A gene, encoding the voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.7. In this study, we investigated a Chinese family with an autosomal dominant form of GEFS+. DNA sequencing of the whole coding region revealed a novel heterozygous nucleotide substitution (c.5873A>G) causing a missense mutation (p.Y1958C). This mutation was predicted to be deleterious by three different bioinformatics programs (The polyphen2, SIFT, and MutationTaster). Our finding reports a novel likely pathogenic SCN9A Y1958C heterozygous mutation in a Chinese family with GEFS+ and provides additional supports that SCN9A variants may be associated with human epilepsies."	"Postoperative inadequate analgesia following video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is a common and significant clinical problem. While genetic polymorphisms may play role in the variability of postoperative analgesia effect, few studies have evaluated the associations between genetic mutations and inadequate analgesia after single-port VATS.Twenty-eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) among 18 selected genes involved in pain perception and modulation were genotyped in 198 Chinese patients undergoing single-port VATS. The primary outcome was the occurrence of inadequate analgesia in the first night and morning after surgery which was defined by a comprehensive postoperative evaluation. Multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to identify the association between genetic variations and postoperative inadequate analgesia.The prevalence of postoperative inadequate analgesia was 45.5% in the present study. After controlling for age and education level, association with inadequate analgesia was observed in four SNPs among three genes encoding voltage-gated sodium channels. Patients with the minor allele of rs33985936 (SCN11A), rs6795970 (SCN10A), and 3312G > T (SCN9A) have an increased risk of suffering from inadequate analgesia. While the patients carrying the minor allele of rs11709492 (SCN11A) have lower risk experiencing inadequate analgesia.We identified that SNPs in SCN9A, SCN10A, and SCN11A play a role in the postoperative inadequate analgesia after single-port VATS. Although future larger and long-term follow up studies are warranted to confirm our findings, the results of the current study may be utilized as predictors for forecasting postoperative analgesic effect for patients receiving this type of surgery.This study was retrospectively registered in the ClinicalTrials.gov Registry (NCT03916120) on April 16, 2019."
"GRIN2A"	"epilepsy"	32241263	32216238	32144935	32065002	32036246	"Non-synonymous mutations altering tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes are widely studied. However, synonymous mutations, which do not alter the protein sequence, are rarely investigated in melanoma genome studies.We explored the role of somatic synonymous mutations in melanoma samples from TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas). The pathogenic synonymous mutation and neutral synonymous mutation data were used to assess the significance of pathogenic synonymous mutations in melanoma likely to affect genetic regulatory elements using Fisher's exact test. Poisson distribution probabilities of each gene were used to mine the genes with multiple potential functional synonymous mutations affecting regulatory elements.Concentrating on five types of genetic regulatory functions, we found that the mutational patterns of pathogenic synonymous mutations are mostly involved in exonic splicing regulators in near-splicing sites or inside DNase I hypersensitivity sites or non-optimal codon. Moreover, the sites of miRNA binding alteration exhibit a significantly lower rate of evolution than other sites. Finally, 12 genes were hit by recurrent potentially functional synonymous mutations, which showed statistical significance in the pathogenic mutations. Among them, nine genes (DNAH5, ADCY8, GRIN2A, KSR2, TECTA, RIMS2, XKR6, MYH1, SCN10A) have been reported to be mutated in melanoma, and other three genes (SLC9A2, CASR, SLC8A3) have a great potential to impact melanoma.These findings confirm the functional consequences of somatic synonymous mutations in melanoma, emphasizing the significance of research in future studies."	"To investigate the effects of long non-coding RNA RP1-90L14.1 on the proliferation, migration and invasion of prostate cancer LNCaP cells and the expressions of GRIN2A and BACE2.Using RT-PCR, we detected the expression of RP1-90L14.1 in LNCaP and LNCaP-AI cells, transiently transfected the RP1-90L14.1 overexpression plasmid (the RP1-90L14.1 group) and vector plasmid (the LNCaP-NC group) into the LNCaP cells, and cultured the two groups of cells with ordinary medium and phenol red-free activated carbon adsorption medium (PRF-ACA). Then we examined the proliferation, migration and invasiveness of the cells by CCK-8 and Transwell, and determined the mRNA and protein expressions of GRIN2A and BACE2 by RT-PCR and Western blot.The expression of RP1-90L14.1 was significantly higher in the LNCaP-AI than in the LNCaP cells (8.49 ± 0.43 vs 2.53 ± 0.95, P < 0.05), and so was that of LNCaP-RP1-90L14.1 in the RP1-90L14.1 than in the LNCaP-NC group after transfection (0.71 ± 0.22 vs 0.02 ± 0.01, P < 0.05). The optical densities (OD) of the cells were 51.95% and 50.69% higher in the RP1-90L14.1 than in the LNCaP-NC group after 72 hours of culture with ordinary medium and phenol red-free ACA (1.22 ± 0.08 vs 0.08 ± 0.05, P < 0.05; 0.79 ± 0.02 vs 0.53 ± 0.05, P < 0.05), and 51.72% and 60.23% higher in the former than in the latter after 96 hours (1.72 ± 0.07 vs 1.13 ± 0.05, P < 0.05; 1.18 ± 0.05 vs 0.73 ± 0.08, P < 0.05). The numbers of the migrating cells cultured with common medium and PRF-ACA were markedly higher in the RP1-90L14.1 than in the LNCaP-NC group after transfection (682.0 ± 42.7 vs 422.0 ± 37.1, P < 0.05; 419.0 ± 42.9 vs 251.0 ± 25.9, P < 0.05), and so were those of the invading cells (507.0 ± 22.2 vs 274.0 ± 19.6, P < 0.05; 352.0 ± 14.1 vs 216.0 ± 14.3, P < 0.05). Statistically significant differences were observed between the RP1-90L14.1 and LNCaP-NC groups in the mRNA and protein expressions of GRIN2A (5.13 ± 0.89 vs 2.09 ± 0.54, P < 0.05; 5.88 ± 0.29 vs 2.03 ± 0.22, P < 0.05) and BACE2 (5.82 ± 0.50 vs 2.53 ± 0.30, P < 0.05; 4.89 ± 0.19 vs 3.37 ± 0.13, P < 0.05).　lncRNA RP1-90L14.1 may play important roles in the proliferation, migration and invasiveness of prostate cancer cells. RP1-90L14.1 can promote the expressions of GRIN2A and BACE2 and may have an endogenous competitive relation with GRIN2A and BACE2."	"NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are glutamate-gated ion channels that contribute to nearly all brain processes. Not surprisingly then, genetic variations in the genes encoding NMDAR subunits can be associated with neurodevelopmental, neurological, and psychiatric disorders. These disease-associated variants (DAVs) present challenges, such as defining how DAV-induced alterations in receptor function contribute to disease progression and how to treat the affected individual clinically. As a starting point to overcome these challenges, we need to refine our understanding of the complexity of NMDAR structure-function. In this regard, DAVs have expanded our knowledge of NMDARs because they do not just target well-known structure-function motifs, but rather give an unbiased view of structural elements important to the biology of NMDARs. Indeed, established NMDAR structure-function motifs have been validated by the appearance of disorders in patients where these motifs have been altered, and DAVs have identified novel structural features in NMDARs such as gating triads and hinges in the gating machinery. Still, the majority of DAVs remain unexplored and occur at sites in the protein with unidentified function or alter receptor properties in multiple and unanticipated ways. Detailed mechanistic and structural investigations are required of both established and novel motifs to develop a highly refined pathomechanistic model that accounts for the complex machinery that regulates NMDARs. Such a model would represent a template for rational drug design and a starting point for personalized medicine. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved."	" Objective:  The aim of this study was to comprehensively explore the relationship between genetic variations within GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIK1, GRIK4, GRID2, and ADHD.  Method:  Genotyping was performed with the Sequenom MassARRAY system in a two-stage case-control study. ADHD symptoms were assessed using the Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham version IV scale and the Integrated Visual and Auditory Continuous Performance Test. In silico analysis was performed with website resources.  Results:  GRID2 rs1385405 showed a significant association with ADHD risk in the codominant model (OR = 2.208, 95% CI = [1.387, 3.515]) in the first stage and in the codominant model (OR = 1.874, 95% CI = [1.225, 2.869]) and recessive model (OR = 1.906, 95% CI = [1.265, 2.873]) in the second stage and related to inattention and hyperactivity symptom. In addition, rs1385405 disturbed the activity of exonic splicing enhancer and mediated GRID2 gene expression in the frontal cortex.  Conclusion:  our data provided evidence for the participation of GRID2 variants in conferring the risk of ADHD."	"We generated iPSCs from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of a child with epilepsy carrying heterozygous missense mutation in GRIN2A, using integration free episomal vectors. These iPSCs express pluripotent markers, represent a normal karyotype and have the ability to differentiate into three germ layers."
"ANKRD11"	"autism"	32258089	32222090	32124548	32037394	32030560	"The incidence of short stature in KBG syndrome is relatively high. Data on the therapeutic effects of growth hormone (GH) on children with KBG syndrome accompanied by short stature in the previous literature has not been summarized.Here we studied a girl with KBG syndrome and collected the data of children with KBG syndrome accompanied by short stature from previous studies before and after GH therapy. The girl was referred to our department because of short stature. Physical examination revealed mild dysmorphic features. The peak GH responses to arginine and clonidine were 6.22 and 5.40 ng/mL, respectively. The level of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) was 42.0 ng/mL. Genetic analysis showed a c.2635 dupG (p.Glu879fs) mutation in the  ANKRD11  gene. She received GH therapy. During the first year of GH therapy, her height increased by 0.92 standard deviation score (SDS). Her height increased from -1.95 SDS to -0.70 SDS after two years of GH therapy. There were ten children with KBG syndrome accompanied by short stature who received GH therapy in reported cases. Height SDS was improved in nine (9/10) of them. The mean height SDS in five children with KBG syndrome accompanied by short stature increased from -2.72 ± 0.44 to -1.95 ± 0.57 after the first year of GH therapy ( P  = 0.001). There were no adverse reactions reported after GH treatment.GH treatment is effective in our girl and most children with KBG syndrome accompanied by short stature during the first year of therapy."	"KBG syndrome is an intellectual disability (ID) associated with multiple congenital anomalies in which the macrodontia could be the clue for the diagnosis. It is caused either by heterozygous variant in ANKRD11 gene or 16q24.3 microdeletions that involve the ANKRD11 gene. Here, we report on two unrelated male patients who presented with ID, short stature, webbing of neck, and cryptorchidism. Noonan syndrome was suspected first but the presence of macrodontia in both patients pointed to KBG syndrome which was confirmed thereafter by the identification of a novel pathogenic variant in ANKRD11 gene, c.5488G>T (p.E1830*). Macrodontia was noticed in all the deciduous anterior teeth in Patient 1. This observation was reported previously in few patients, but it seems to be a common feature that could be misdiagnosed as premature eruption of teeth. Therefore, our results confirm that maxillary permanent central incisors may not be the only teeth affected in KBG but also all the deciduous teeth. Interestingly, desquamative gingivitis was additionally noted in Patient 1, which has not been reported previously, however; it could be a coincidental finding. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report from Egypt."	"KBG syndrome (MIM #148050) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by developmental delay, intellectual disability, distinct craniofacial anomalies, macrodontia of permanent upper central incisors, skeletal abnormalities, and short stature. This study describes clinical features of 28 patients, confirmed by molecular testing of ANKRD11 gene, and three patients with 16q24 deletion encompassing ANKRD11 gene, diagnosed in a single center. Common clinical features are reported, together with uncommon findings, clinical expression in the first years of age, distinctive associations, and familial recurrences. Unusual manifestations emerging from present series include juvenile idiopathic arthritis, dysfunctional dysphonia, multiple dental agenesis, idiopathic precocious telarche, oral frenula, motor tics, and lipoma of corpus callosum, pilomatrixoma, and endothelial corneal polymorphic dystrophy. Facial clinical markers suggesting KBG syndrome before 6 years of age include ocular and mouth conformation, wide eyebrows, synophrys, long black eyelashes, long philtrum, thin upper lip. General clinical symptoms leading to early genetic evaluation include developmental delay, congenital malformations, hearing anomalies, and feeding difficulties. It is likely that atypical clinical presentation and overlapping features in patients with multiple variants are responsible for underdiagnosis in KBG syndrome. Improved knowledge of common and atypical features of this disorder improves clinical management."	"This study investigated the diagnostic utility of nontargeted genomic testing in patients with pediatric heart disease.We analyzed genome sequencing data of 111 families with cardiac lesions for rare, disease-associated variation.In 14 families (12.6%), we identified causative variants: seven were de novo (ANKRD11, KMT2D, NR2F2, POGZ, PTPN11, PURA, SALL1) and six were inherited from parents with no or subclinical heart phenotypes (FLT4, DNAH9, MYH11, NEXMIF, NIPBL, PTPN11). Outcome of the testing was associated with the presence of extracardiac features (p = 0.02), but not a positive family history for cardiac lesions (p = 0.67). We also report novel plausible gene-disease associations for tetralogy of Fallot/pulmonary stenosis (CDC42BPA, FGD5), hypoplastic left or right heart (SMARCC1, TLN2, TRPM4, VASP), congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (UBXN10), and early-onset cardiomyopathy (TPCN1). The identified candidate genes have critical functions in heart development, such as angiogenesis, mechanotransduction, regulation of heart size, chromatin remodeling, or ciliogenesis.This data set demonstrates the diagnostic and scientific value of genome sequencing in pediatric heart disease, anticipating its role as a first-tier diagnostic test. The genetic heterogeneity will necessitate large-scale genomic initiatives for delineating novel gene-disease associations."	"We present a comprehensive clinically oriented workflow for large-insert genome sequencing (liGS)-based nucleotide level resolution and interpretation of de novo (dn) apparently balanced chromosomal abnormalities (BCA) in prenatal diagnosis (PND). Retrospective or concomitant with conventional PND and liGS, molecular and newly developed clinically inspired bioinformatic tools (TAD-GConTool and CNV-ConTool) are applied to analyze and assess the functional and phenotypic outcome of dn structural variants (dnSVs). Retrospective analysis of four phenotype-associated dnSVs identified during conventional PND precisely reveal the genomic elements disrupted by the translocation breakpoints. Identification of autosomal dominant disease due to the disruption of ANKS1B and WDR26 by t(12;17)(q23.1;q21.33)dn and t(1;3)(q24.11;p25.3)dn breakpoints, respectively, substantiated the proposed workflow. We then applied this workflow to two ongoing prenatal cases with apparently balanced dnBCAs: 46,XX,t(16;17)(q24;q21.3)dn referred for increased risk on combined first trimester screening and 46,XY,t(2;19)(p13;q13.1)dn referred due to a previous trisomy 21 pregnancy. Translocation breakpoints in the t(16;17) involve ANKRD11 and WNT3 and disruption of ANKRD11 resulted in KBG syndrome confirmed in postnatal follow-up. Breakpoints in the t(2;19) are within ATP6V1B1 and the 3' UTR of CEP89, and are not interpreted to cause disease. Genotype-phenotype correlation confirms the causative role of WDR26 in the Skraban-Deardorff and 1q41q42 microdeletion phenocopy syndromes, and that disruption of ANKS1B causes ANKS1B haploinsufficiency syndrome. In sum, we show that an liGS-based approach can be realized in PND care providing additional information concerning clinical outcomes of dnBCAs in patients with such rearrangements."
"SHANK2"	"autism"	32268103	32252796	32252688	32184300	32165372	"Epithelial cells establish apicobasal polarity by forming tight junctions (TJs) at the apical-lateral boundary, which play fundamental roles in physiological functions. An evolutionarily conserved atypical protein kinase C (aPKC)-partitioning defective (PAR) complex functions as a platform for TJ assembly during cell polarity establishment. However, how this complex converts the spatial cues into a subsequent active unit is unclear. Here, we identify an epithelial isoform of Shank2 as a mediator of the aPKC-PAR complex. Shank2 binds to and colocalizes with aPKC at apical junctional regions of polarized epithelial cells. Shank2 knockdown results in defects in TJ formation. Mechanistically, we find that the N-terminal SPN domain is required for the junctional localization of Shank2 and binds to the active form of Rap1 small GTPase, which is involved in TJ formation. Our findings suggest that a close physical and functional relationship between aPKC and Shank2-active Rap1 signaling serves as the platform for TJ assembly to regulate epithelial cell polarity."	"Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a group of neurodevelopmental disorders that are highly heterogeneous in clinical symptoms as well as etiologies. Mutations in SHANK2 are associated with ASD and accordingly, Shank2 knockout mouse shows ASD-like behavioral phenotypes, including social deficits. Intriguingly, two lines of Shank2 knockout (KO) mouse generated by deleting different exons (exon 6-7 or exon 7) showed distinct cellular phenotypes. Previously, we compared gene expressions between Shank2 KOs lacking exon 6-7 (e6-7 KO) and KOs lacking exon 7 (e7 KO) by performing RNA-seq. In this study, we expanded transcriptomic analyses to identify novel transcriptional variants in the KO mice. We found prominent expression of a novel exon (exon 4' or e4') between the existing exons 4 and 5 in the Shank2 e6-7 KO model. Expression of the transcriptional variant harboring this novel exon was confirmed by RT-PCR and western blotting. These findings suggest that the novel variant may function as a modifier gene, which contributes to the differences between the two Shank2 mutant lines. Furthermore, our result further represents an example of genetic compensation that may lead to phenotypic heterogeneity among ASD patients with mutations in the same gene."	"Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is an aggressive cancer with one of the highest world incidences in the Eastern Cape region of South Africa. Several genome wide studies have been performed on ESCC cohorts from Asian countries, North America, Malawi and other parts of the world but none have been conducted on ESCC tumors from South Africa to date, where the molecular pathology and etiology of this disease remains unclear. We report here tumor associated copy number changes observed in 51 ESCC patients' samples from the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.We extracted tumor DNA from 51 archived ESCC specimens and interrogated tumor associated DNA copy number changes using Affymetrix® 500 K SNP array technology. The Genomic Identification of Significant Targets in Cancer (GISTIC 2.0) algorithm was applied to identify significant focal regions of gains and losses. Gains of the top recurrent cancer genes were validated by fluorescence in situ hybridization and their protein expression assessed by immunohistochemistry.Twenty-three significant focal gains were identified across samples. Gains involving the CCND1, MYC, EGFR and JAG1 loci recapitulated those described in studies on Asian and Malawian cohorts. The two most significant gains involved the chromosomal sub-bands 3q28, encompassing the TPRG1 gene and 11q13.3 including the CTTN, PPFIA1and SHANK2 genes. There was no significant homozygous loss and the most recurrent hemizygous deletion involved the B3GAT1 gene on chromosome 11q25. Focal gains on 11q13.3 in 37% of cases (19/51), consistently involved CTTN and SHANK2 genes. Twelve of these cases (23,5%), had a broader region of gain that also included the CCND1, FGF19, FGF4 and FGF3 genes. SHANK2 and CTTN are co-amplified in several cancers, these proteins interact functionally together and are involved in cell motility. Immunohistochemistry confirmed both Shank2 (79%) and cortactin (69%) protein overexpression in samples with gains of these genes. In contrast, cyclin D1 (65%) was moderately expressed in samples with CCND1 DNA gain.This study reports copy number changes in a South African ESCC cohort and highlights similarities and differences with cohorts from Asia and Malawi. Our results strongly suggest a role for CTTN and SHANK2 in the pathogenesis of ESCC in South Africa."	"Homeostatic scaling is a form of synaptic plasticity where individual synapses scale their strengths to compensate for global suppression or elevation of neuronal activity. This process can be studied by measuring miniature excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitudes and frequencies following the regulation of activity in neuronal cultures. Here we demonstrate a quantitative approach to characterize multiplicative synaptic scaling using immunolabelling of hippocampal neuronal cultures treated with tetrodotoxin or bicuculline to extract scaling factors for various synaptic proteins. This approach allowed us to directly examine the scaling of pre- and postsynaptic scaffolding molecules along with neurotransmitter receptors in primary cultures from mouse and rat hippocampal neurons. We show robust multiplicative scaling of synaptic scaffolding molecules namely, Shank2, PSD95, Bassoon, and AMPA receptor subunits and quantify their scaling factors. We use super-resolution microscopy to calculate scaling factors of surface expressed GluA2 within functional zones of the synapse and show that there is differential and correlated scaling of GluA2 levels within the spine, the postsynaptic density, and the perisynaptic regions. Our method opens a novel paradigm to quantify relative molecular changes of synaptic proteins within distinct subsynaptic compartments from a large number of synapses in response to alteration of neuronal activity, providing anatomical insights into the intricacies of variability in strength of individual synapses. Significance Statement  Here we demonstrate a novel quantitative method based on rank ordered analysis to characterize multiplicative synaptic scaling from immunolabelling of hippocampal neuronal cultures after activity blockade. We show that along with glutamatergic receptors, several scaffolding molecules are scaled after blocking activity. This analysis paradigm can be generalized to any protein which alters its content post plasticity protocols. With the aid of conventional and super-resolution microscopy, we examine pools of AMPA type glutamatergic receptors, and confirm that they are scaled differentially within functional zones of synapses. Furthermore, we show that the AMPA receptor content within the postsynaptic density and perisynaptic compartments are altered differentially during homeostatic scaling, indicating a differential regulation of receptors within various subsynaptic compartments during homeostatic plasticity."	"The Jianchang duck is mainly distributed in Southwest China, and has the characteristics of fast growth rate and strong abilities in lipid deposition in the liver. In order to investigate the effects of domestication process on formation of the unique characteristics of Jianchang duck, the whole genome of sixteen individuals and three pooling of Jianchang duck were re-sequenced, and genome data of 70 mallards and 83 domestic ducks from thirteen different places in China were obtained from NCBI. The population stratification and evolution analysis showed gene exchanges existed between the Jianchang and other domestic duck populations, as well as Jianchang ducks and mallards. Genomic comparison between mallards and Jianchang ducks showed genes, including  CNTN1 ,  CHRNA9 , and  SHANK2 , which is involved in brain and nerve development, experienced strong positive selection in the process of Jianchang duck domestication. The genomic comparison between Jianchang and domestic duck populations showed that  HSD17B12  and  ESM1 , which affect lipid metabolism, experienced strong positive selection during the domestication process.  F  ST  analysis among populations of Jianchang duck with different plumage colors indicated that  MITF  was related to the phenotype of a white feather, while  MC1R  was related to the phenotype of hemp feather. Our results provided a base for the domestication process of Jianchang duck and the genomic genes for unique traits."
"POGZ"	"autism"	32103003	32037394	31782611	31430754	31347273	"Pogo transposable element derived with ZNF domain (POGZ) has been identified as one of the most recurrently de novo mutated genes in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), including autism spectrum disorder (ASD), intellectual disability and White-Sutton syndrome; however, the neurobiological basis behind these disorders remains unknown. Here, we show that POGZ regulates neuronal development and that ASD-related de novo mutations impair neuronal development in the developing mouse brain and induced pluripotent cell lines from an ASD patient. We also develop the first mouse model heterozygous for a de novo POGZ mutation identified in a patient with ASD, and we identify ASD-like abnormalities in the mice. Importantly, social deficits can be treated by compensatory inhibition of elevated cell excitability in the mice. Our results provide insight into how de novo mutations on high-confidence ASD genes lead to impaired mature cortical network function, which underlies the cellular pathogenesis of NDDs, including ASD."	"This study investigated the diagnostic utility of nontargeted genomic testing in patients with pediatric heart disease.We analyzed genome sequencing data of 111 families with cardiac lesions for rare, disease-associated variation.In 14 families (12.6%), we identified causative variants: seven were de novo (ANKRD11, KMT2D, NR2F2, POGZ, PTPN11, PURA, SALL1) and six were inherited from parents with no or subclinical heart phenotypes (FLT4, DNAH9, MYH11, NEXMIF, NIPBL, PTPN11). Outcome of the testing was associated with the presence of extracardiac features (p = 0.02), but not a positive family history for cardiac lesions (p = 0.67). We also report novel plausible gene-disease associations for tetralogy of Fallot/pulmonary stenosis (CDC42BPA, FGD5), hypoplastic left or right heart (SMARCC1, TLN2, TRPM4, VASP), congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (UBXN10), and early-onset cardiomyopathy (TPCN1). The identified candidate genes have critical functions in heart development, such as angiogenesis, mechanotransduction, regulation of heart size, chromatin remodeling, or ciliogenesis.This data set demonstrates the diagnostic and scientific value of genome sequencing in pediatric heart disease, anticipating its role as a first-tier diagnostic test. The genetic heterogeneity will necessitate large-scale genomic initiatives for delineating novel gene-disease associations."	"White-Sutton syndrome (WHSUS) is a recently-identified genetic disorder resulting from de novo heterozygous pathogenic variants in POGZ. Thus far, over 50 individuals have been reported worldwide, however phenotypic characterization and data regarding the natural history are still incomplete. Here we report the clinical features of 22 individuals with 21 unique loss of function POGZ variants. We observed a broad spectrum of intellectual disability and/or developmental delay with or without autism, and speech delay in all individuals. Other common problems included ocular abnormalities, hearing loss and gait abnormalities. A validated sleep disordered breathing questionnaire identified symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea in 4/12 (33%) individuals. A higher-than-expected proportion of cases also had gastrointestinal phenotypes, both functional and anatomical, as well as genitourinary anomalies. In line with previous publications, we observed an increased body mass index (BMI) z-score compared to the general population (mean 0.59, median 0.9; p 0.0253). Common facial features included microcephaly, broad forehead, midface hypoplasia, triangular mouth, broad nasal root and flat nasal bridge. Analysis of the Baylor Genetics clinical laboratory database revealed that POGZ variants were implicated in approximately 0.14% of cases who underwent clinical exome sequencing for neurological indications with or without involvement of other body systems. This study describes a greater allelic series and expands the phenotypic spectrum of this new syndromic form of intellectual disability and autism."	"POGZ is a heterochromatin protein 1 α-binding protein and regulates gene expression. On the other hand, accumulating pieces of evidence indicate that the POGZ gene abnormalities are involved in various neurodevelopmental disorders. In this study, we prepared a specific antibody against POGZ, anti-POGZ, and carried out biochemical and morphological characterization with mouse brain tissues. Western blotting analyses revealed that POGZ is expressed strongly at embryonic day 13 and then gradually decreased throughout the brain development process. In immunohistochemical analyses, POGZ was found to be enriched in cerebrocortical and hippocampal neurons in the early developmental stage. The nuclear expression was also detected in Purkinje cells in cerebellum at postnatal day (P)7 and P15 but disappeared at P30. In primary cultured hippocampal neurons, while POGZ was distributed mainly in the nucleus, it was also visualized in axon and dendrites with partial localization at synapses in consistency with the results obtained in biochemical fractionation analyses. The obtained results suggest that POGZ takes part in the regulation of synaptic function as well as gene expression during brain development."	"De novo likely gene-disrupting variants of POGZ cause autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability. However, de novo missense variants of this gene were not well explored in neuropsychiatric disorders.The single-molecule molecular inversion probes-based targeted sequencing method was performed on the proband. Variant was validated using Sanger sequencing in both proband and parents. Immunoblot analysis was performed to examine the expression of POGZ in patient-derived peripheral blood lymphocytes. Published POGZ de novo missense variants in neuropsychiatric disorders were reviewed.We detected a novel de novo missense variant in POGZ (c.1534C>A, p.H512N, NM_015100.4) in an individual with ASD. Immunoblot analysis revealed a dramatic reduction in POGZ protein in patient-derived peripheral blood lymphocytes suggesting a loss-of-function mechanism of this de novo missense variant. In addition, we collected and annotated additional eight POGZ de novo missense variants identified in neuropsychiatric disorders from literatures.Our findings will be beneficial to the functional analysis of POGZ in ASD pathogenesis, and for genetic counseling and clinical diagnosis of patients with POGZ de novo missense variants."
